---
   title: 'Debgihjgh-ing ❌ .. debugh-ing❌ .. debugging ✅'

   date: 'Aug, 2022'
--- 
As a software engineer, aknowledging that the debugging part is an unavoidable part in your career, helped to lift the pressure and remove some frustration.

I always thought that being a web developer was all about the building and architectural part with a collaborative team. As a matter of fact, I was partly wrong. As you advance in that career,  you will quickly realize, that most part of your missions is about correcting your code on the slightest, meaningless, forgetful mistakes: a whole code can be disrupted by a missing comma in your promise object using ajax syntax, a missing semi-colon can paralyze your whole CSS file, an extra comma can stop the display of your mdx file. A misplaced capital letter to one of your variable or function, exported to another React component, can cause you endless headaches.

These bugs pushed me at first, to the apotheose of frustration, I will not lie, but then after a few deep breaths, relentless perserverence, my vibrating solving problem obsession, I used and abused the google researches that led me  to the promise land : OVERSTACKFLOW and GITHUB. These developers platforms, helped me to get the answers that I needed, to troubleshoot the bugs, they truely help me seeing the light at the darkest, confusing, long nights. My relentlessness, and long nights googling everything and anki all the new informations I could get, made me **FINALLY** understand the pattern of every files, dependencies and packages, versions, so your code get not disrupted every 3 seconds.

These code solving moments, made me realize how **organized**, thorough, attentive, you have to be, to become an efficient and successful developer. And the feeling of pride you get after the hours, days spent,looking through your react components, your server-side codebase, node modules, to one day finding why your console keeps displaying an error message, is **IMMEASURABLE**.

That is also a new mantra that I managed to develop, ever since I started my journey in Tech: to **NEVER** give up, even when I feel like there is no solving's way out. Never give up, even when going around your codes for hours would make you feel that you are failing and your imposter syndrom is kicking in, it is all about keep perserving until it starts to make sense! Breaks work as well, going to bed when the challenge mountain seems to high to climb, just to recover after a good night of sleep. My best friend are Google Stackoverflow & Github, they are my everyday tools (even crutch sometimes when struggling in some building phases during projects creation). They are my web developing compass.

## Trough of sorrow

To literally create this blog, I had to go through what it is called **THEE through of sorrow**.

Weeks, days, hours of debugging uncompatible modules, converting the right webpack into the right version for Node, downgrading modules, upgrading packages so the code do not break.. Downloading the right package to make sure the mdx extensions will be parsed and upload perfectly. Tons of sweat and tears, long nights, googling how to debug every step of the building phase. I can tell you if you are not a fighting soldier, that battle is lost in advance. Building actual projects are not for the weaks. It is so important to give oneself some slacks, applaud oneself to each effort, time, little steps forward. The motivation to open VS Code and decide to build something itself is a success already. You just have to understand that your code will face few blocks ahead, that everything will work smoothly for few hours until... ❌ it is not, just take breaks, go outside, socialize and come back recharged to the pended challenges. It is okay also to give up one project when the challenge mountain is to hard and to high to climb. Start with a simple working tech creation that is way more attainable and easier to develop, then push it to github, portfolio, twitter, linkedin, so your web dev peers can I have an eye on it.

Sadly for me, my ambitious personality and untreated impatience to an excellent web developer, pushes me to chose the most complicated projects ever created, just for the thrill and to prove myself how capable and how fast I can learn. I can say that this strategy is undoubtedly risky and has been proved to be exhausting, especially when facing very technical issues for days, that seem impossible to solve. But again I NEVER give up, I will google, stackoverflow, github my way out of these not debuggable bugs, until I will make it work again. 
