---
  title: 'Expressing my creativity through clothes'

  date: 'Aug 20, 2022'
 
---
## Vêtements

Creative soul but never had any particular talent to express it. I nevertheles found in fashion, a way to create, to express, how my mind browse through the seasons, moods, feels, trends. I just love mixing colours, fabrics, patterns, with each other, and seeing the cool result on the mirror before leaving home. Painters have their canvas, writers, their notepads (laptops today for saving trees), singers their microphones, me I have my outfits. Clothes are a part of my identity, my DNA. I do not define myself as having one particular style. But I am truely inpsired by hundreds of movements.

- goth: in 2022 I still listen to the Cure and Indochine. They are literally my favourite bands ever. I just adore their aesthetics! The extravagant hairstyle, moody and sad faces, depressing lyrics with upbeat music tempo, and all the black outfits, I just dig it it a lot. I always being drawn by the gothic universe, I have always been fascinated by Morticia Addams character, since I am a kid, she just has that mysterious and elegant "je ne sais quoi" that is so inspirational. Her long  and straight black hair with the mid-part, her red long nails, and long black dresses showing off her beautiful body shape. I truely love that movement.

- femme vixen: The femme looks is aesthetically very pleasing to the eyes, but demands a lot of maintenance, from nails to toes everything is thought through. The level of feminity transpired by these looks is ethereal. Dressing that way for me is a fashion statement, to express how good you feel about yourself and how happy you feel showing it to the world. Not saying that I can dress provocatively everyday, but yes wearing latex dresses or leather pants, with ladder heels stilettos, or studio 54 platform heels, (Yes I love shoess!), with extravagant make up, is what I love to do. In the office, during the 5 business days, I am so traditional, classic, in line, BUT the weekend or in vacations, I just embody that other character, that is so confident and empowered and just not care how people think of her based on her appearance.

- punk/rock : inspired not only by the looks but mostly by the the way the movement emerged beginning of the 70s in the United Kingdom. Margaret Thatcher Prime Minister at the time, runs the country during a unprecedented global economic crisis, caused by the iranian political putsch. Following the global domino effects, impacting the british economy, Thatcher decides to close whole industries (coal mines mostly), and gets to legislate many restrictive measures, pushing thousands people to unemployment without any solid social safety nets. Leading to the immense strikes across the country. Here is how the punk movement is born, out of anger against the government's policies. 
      Thatcher and her supporters, royalists mostly, are represented by conservative views, often dressed with grey suits and classic attires, always in line not making any fuss and having strong religious values. The punk movement in spite of the conservative party leading the country, created a movement where their members, dressed with flashy, teared up pants, platforms shoes, chains, piercings, tattoes, and the infamous mohawk haircuts. Their appearances that are diametrically opposite to the tory members, are a display of their subversions and very deep despise against Thatcher austerity policy, that harmed the social stratification lowest part. Beyond the appearance part,historical punk rock bands actually emerged at that period, protesting through subversive and anarchic songs. So not only I am inspired by the punk members looks, but I have also a lot of respect for them.


